Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we will connect our my notes front end with the WordPress rest API as the back end
and the JavaScript code that we write will be the glue that holds the two together.
Let me show you what I mean.
So from the home page, while you were logged in as your admin account, let's click on to the My Notes
page.
Here we see the two note posts that we created in the previous lesson from the back end of WordPress.
And now our goal in this lesson is to be able to make edits to these posts as well as completely delete
them right from the front end of our website, directly from this page and UI that we've got right here.
Why don't we begin with the delete action now?
At first, let's not even worry about making this actually delete a post.
And instead, let's just begin by writing JavaScript that responds to this click event.
So, for example, when you click this delete button, maybe we just output a test alert message that
says you clicked delete.
OK, then once we've got that up and running, we can focus on actually communicating with WordPress.
So right now, let's go right a bit of JavaScript that responds to this delete click event over in your
text editor within our theme folder.
Let's look in the SIRC C folder and then within the modules folder, let's create a brand new file to
stay organized.
The name of the file does not matter, but I'm going to name it my notes dot J.S. and I'm going to code
things from an object oriented perspective, which is just personal preference.
It doesn't have anything to do with WordPress, but I encourage you to follow along with me.
So first, let's create a new class.
The name doesn't matter, but I'm going to name it my notes, OK?
And within the class, I always like to have three sections.
The first is the constructor function and then right below that I like to have an events method and
then right below that is where I like to create any of my own custom methods.
All right.
And because I want to be able to import this module within my main scripts file down at the very, very
bottom of this file, let's say export default and then the name of our class.
So my notes, OK, and before we save this file and then go import it within our main scripts file,
why don't we include a little text message up in the constructor just to make sure that everything's
working?
OK, let's alert out a text message that says hello from my notes, J.S..
OK, let's go ahead and save this.
And now we want to be sure to import it within our main JavaScript file.
So within our SIRC folder, let's find the index JS file and jump into that.
Here's the area where we import all of our individual modules.
So let's add a new line here and say import and we can make up a name, let's say my notes from.
And then you just point towards that new file that we just created.
So quotes period to look within the current folder and then let's look within the modules subfolder
and then we named the file my notes, OK?
And now that we've imported that class in file, we can use it to create a new object down here.
So on a new line, let's just create a variable lowercase my notes just so it's different from the class
name and we can just set to equal a new instance of my notes.
So make sure that this matches whatever name you used here.
OK, now if I save this file, if I go back to the front end of my website and refresh.
Cool, we can see that text message.
Hello from my notes J.S., which means our new module is working correctly.
So now let's just go ahead and actually respond to the click event for this delete button.
So back in our text editor within our my notes JavaScript module, let's delete the test alert message
within the constructor and then within our events method.
Let's tell the Web browser that we want to be on the lookout for that delete button getting clicked
on.
I want to use query to select that element.
But if I'm going to use J query within this file, I need to be sure to include or import J query up
at the very top here.
So to do that we can just say import and then we get to make up our own.
Name for query.
Let's just say dollar sign, import that from quotes, Jake query, and thanks to the magic of NPM and
Westpac and our automations set up, this will give us what we need.
OK, now back to the task at hand.
Within our event's method, let's use Jake Query to select any element that has a class of delete note
and then let's say on and then we just give the on method to arguments.
So the first is the type of event we want to be on the lookout for, which in this case is the click
event.
And then the second argument is just a function that we want to run in response.
Now we could include an anonymous inline function here, but just to stay organized, why don't we do
this instead down here?
Why don't we create a brand new method?
We could name it whatever we want, but I'm going to call it delete note, OK?
And then back up on this line for the second argument.
Let's just point towards this function or this method so we can just say this to look within the current
object or class and then type out that name, delete note, OK, and just as a test, so we can make
sure that this method is actually running down here, why don't we alert a test message that says you
clicked delete.
OK, now before I save this and test it out in the browser, I want to be sure to call my event's method
up in the constructor.
So that way this code actually gets executed as soon as the page loads.
So write up in the constructor.
Just say this.
DOT events include parentheses to actually execute it.
OK, now if I save this and click on the delete button, cool, we get an alert that says you clicked
delete and I can try the button down here and it does the same thing.
Excellent.
So now we can finally get to the entire point of this lesson, which is how can we communicate with
WordPress from the front end when we click this button, how can we tell WordPress to delete a specific
post?
Well, the answer has to do with the rest API, and that's exactly what we're going to learn more about
in part two of this lesson.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you then.